---
title: Striped disks for more IOPS
description: Use striped disk volume for more IOPS.
author: meaghanlewis
ms.author: mosagie
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 03/09/2022
ms.prod: azure-gaming
---

# Striped disks for more IOPS

You can either configure a disk volume that is striped across multiple data disks for the Game Development Virtual Machine on portal during VM creation as below or set up a striped volume using Disk Management console in the Windows operating system.

:::image type="content" source="../media/striped-disks-iops/striped-disk-volume-configuration.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing how to configure the disk volume for a game development VM":::

## Striped Disk Volume

Striped volume is also known as RAID 0. The benefits of having RAID 0 are larger disk capacity and faster performance. For example, a single 1TB Azure Data Disk in [P30 tier](/azure/virtual-machines/disks-types#premium-ssd-size) has 5000 IOPS and 200 MB/sec throughput. By using striped volume, you can combine two 1TB Data Disks and end up with one 2TB volume with doubled 10000 IOPS and 400 MB/sec. This can be more cost-efficient than upgrading Azure disk tier for a better performance.

Keep in mind that although striped disk can deliver better performance, the IOPS and throughput won’t exceed VM’s limit. Take VM size Standard_NV12s_v3 in [NVv3-series](/azure/virtual-machines/nvv3-series) as example. The max IOPS for this VM is 20000. If you decide to make five P30 Azure disks into one striped volume, you won’t see 25000 IOPS (5000*5) but only 20000 since the I/O capping happens at VM level. However, you can [change the size of a virtual machine](/azure/virtual-machines/resize-vm?tabs=portal) with different I/O limits.

## I/O pattern

In addition, the workload I/O pattern which is generated by your application also plays an important role. A highly parallel, multi-thread I/O pattern would help VM deliver the highest storage performance. A cache friendly workload that can be well suited in Azure VM configured cache will also unleash more IOPS. By fine-tuning different parameters from application, VM and storage, you can get the most out of the disk performance on Azure.

## Next steps

- Learn more about [virtual machine and disk performance](/azure/virtual-machines/disks-performance)
- Learn how to boost Azure disk IOPS with [managed disk bursting](/azure/virtual-machines/disk-bursting)
- Explore more topics on [Azure managed disks](/azure/virtual-machines/managed-disks-overview)
